Alright, in this video we're going to
take a look at setting properties with
profiles. Spring boot has a very very
powerful and versatile tool set. It
allows you to work in the profile name
into the file name where there's dot
properties file or yaml file and you
also have a little neat extension inside
of yaml files where you can set the
profile inside the yaml file. And what's
important to remember is, you might have
your properties spread across multiple
files and now you're bringing in active
profiles and the hierarchy of the
properties is going to override some
stuff for you. So when you set up profile
that's active, that will override the
baseline, the base application.profile
or application.properties or the application.yml file.
So nead properties for profiles will
take precedence over properties that
don't have a profile associated with
them. So this gives you a very very
powerful tool set when you're
configuring and managing multiple
environments with Spring Boot and this
is a Spring Boot specific feature. It is
a feature of Spring Boot for the Spring
framework and how Spring Boot manages a
property file. So I'm going to go in to
IntelliJ now and show you some examples
of how we can work with
Spring Active Profiles and the Spring
Boot configuration files. Okay Spring Boot gives us some interesting capabilities when
we're dealing with profiles and property
files. This is a real handy thing to have
and I'm going to show you an example
right here. So right now we have the
spring profile active for de. If you
remember we were doing German languages
and use de for our active profile. We've
been playing with that so far. So I'm
going to continue with that and what we
can do is we can come in and we'll
create a New File and now I'm calling it
application-de.properties. I'm
going to go ahead and add that file. You
add that to Git. Okay so I have
application.properties and I'm just
going to grab the guru.username for our
fake DataSource
Bean. I'm going to copy him over. I'm
going to say John and a couple asterisks there in German and what's going to happen
when we run this, is because I've done
the application dash profile name, that
property is going to override the
application properties. So I can come in
here and run our little sample
application and we're going to see that
first output line. So now that's
German because I've set the profile
active and the application for that
profile dot properties is overriding the
setting that we have for the other one. Now you can do the exact same thing with
yaml. So I can create a yaml file
application-de for yaml and do that
but, yaml gives us a unique
capability where we can come in and do
multiple files. So I'm going to come in
and modify this and if I do three
dashes, that indicates a file separator
inside the yaml file and I can do the
Spring profiles and say de here and
let's grab one of the settings
for the jms. I'm just going to grab the
username, copy that over,
and we'll call this, I have some dollar
signs there so we know that's in German.
So we'll see that output. So now I'm
going to run this. I'm showing you a
different way to set a Profile specific
property and you can see that that is
getting picked up. So what's happening
inside the yaml file i, I don't have a
property here at the beginning and it's
picking up these properties by default
but now I have a file separator in there
that's three dashes of a file separator
for yaml and I've specified a Spring
Profile. So the Spring Profile is going
to override. There on lines 10 through
12 because that's part of that Profile
that overrides the other one. So two
different ways here just to recap,
application dash and then whether its properties or
yaml that will take precedence over
a file that does not have the Profile
information in it and then it again,
within a single yaml file you can set up
a specific Profile and override
properties for that Profile when it's
active. Alright so you can see that
it's pretty versatile tool set there.
I've had some pretty complex
configurations contained in Spring Boot
property files like this and it's not
terribly uncommon to use a mix of
property files and yaml files. Maybe not
the best habit. Some people like to
use one or the other. When I am coding on
a spring application, it really kind of
depends on the project team. I do like to
keep it either in dot property files or dot
yml files. I just think it's a little
bit cleaner to do that at that way but
that's my opinion. You can see here that
I was able to mix and match things at
will with no problem at all because what
Spring is going to do under covers with
the help of Spring Boot, is bring
everything up into the Spring Context
and those properties are going to get
wired into the Spring Context using that
property hierarchy for us where we will
override different stuff and get that in
and so it gives us a real versatile tool
set that we can utilize and when we're
configuring our Spring Spplications.